# GroupTestApp

Implementation of a distributed virtual peer selection algorithm called Bounded Path Dissemination (BPD).

## Overrview
This algorithm improves the dissemination of information to all peers in the network by reducing the hop length of the path from one node
to all other nodes within a threshold, which can be specified as an input parameter. The threshold of 1 implies
a fully connected graph. BPD limits the minimum number of iterations required for the message generated by
a particular node in the network to reach all its peers. This results in speeding up of the information coverage
throughout the network, which effectively improves the performance of a peer-to-peer application algorithms
over the unmodified scenario. Additionally, BPD also has dedicated self-healing capabilities that can ensure
that peers remain connected even if one or more drop out due to faults.

## Stages

The algorithm comprises two stages, namely Discover Peers and Group Update. The first stage dynamically
gathers information about the various node-to-node paths within the topology and their lengths,
while the second stage then uses that information to alter some of the paths to ensure that they all lie within
the defined threshold. For our setup, an external agent called TopologyManager was responsible for sending
commands to each peer to initiate the algorithm stages. However, the same can be triggered using an
internal clock. For smart grids, the number of nodes is determined by the elements of the grid. The network
is closed and private for security. Thus, there is no node churn. Therefore, the algorithm starts with an initial configuration of the nodes generated by the topology
framework. However, the discovery phase still ensures generalizability since the path lengths are calculated
dynamically without any knowledge of the initial configuration.

## Examples

Each folder implements a different *flavor* of the same RIAPS application GroupTestApp. It is a simple distriuted avergaging control logic. The peer-to-peer communication algorithm is implemented on top of it to handle information exchange among the components.

- **GroupTestAppAlgo**: Implements the BPD algorithm.
- **GroupTestAppandom**: Implements a randomized gossip protocol.
- **GroupTestAppFixed**: Implements a fixed sparse connection topology.
- **GroupTestAppFlood**: Default. Implements flooding.
